Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you an action, mystery,
sci-fi film from 2015, titled Self/less.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Damian Hale, a successful businessman and
billionaire, is looking through large glass
windows in his skyscraper apartment in NYC.
Behind him, a nurse is getting ready to leave
and is picking up her tools.
The billionaire has terminal cancer and barely
6 months left to live.
Later, during lunch with his best friend Martin,
they discuss his illness and how he still
hasn’t told his daughter Claire about it.
Damian doesn’t have a good relationship
with Claire because he was a workaholic while
she was growing up and didn’t spend enough
time with her.
Martin thinks that if Claire knows about the
illness, she will forgive him and they will
quickly make amends.
Before Damian and Martin ways, the billionaire
asks his friend whether he heard of “shedding”
and Martin says no.
While in his limousine Damian tries to call
Claire but she doesn’t answer.
Then he pulls a business card of a company
named Phoenix Biogenetic and remembers the
conversation he had with the company owner
– Dr. Albright.
The doctor’s primary mission in life is
to offer humanity’s greatest minds a way
to extend their life and fulfill their full
potential.
He has created a device that can transport
consciousness from one body to another – a
process known as shedding.
The company provides new bodies genetically
engineered to perfection to everyone willing
to pay big money for them.
Damian remembers how he asked the doctor why
their service was still illegal.
Albright said that he asked the wrong questions.
The right question would be: “Do you feel
immortal?”
After going through these memories and wondering
whether to take Albright’s offer, Damian
goes to see Claire who is running a non-profit
organization.
Wanting to make things right before dying,
he gives his daughter money but doesn't tell
her about the illness.
She refuses to take the money because she
thinks he’s manipulating her, expecting
his checkbook to solve every problem.
Later Damian is sitting in his office, disappointed
with how things turned out with Claire.
Desperate to have another chance at life,
he continues to research shedding and Phoenix
Biogenic.
He discovers that the procedure was invented
by Dr. Jensen and watches a video of him explaining
the philosophy behind it.
Jensen wanted to free the mind from the body
and allow people to live even after the body
dies.
But as Damian is researching shedding, he
starts coughing blood and faints.
The illness is starting to consume him so
when he wakes up with breathing tubes attached
to his nose, he decides to call Albright and
schedule the procedure.
Albright explains how after the switch, he
can’t contact anybody and that his old life
won’t exist.
He also instructs him to come to New Orleans
and publicly fake his death.
The next day, Damian’s on a plane and calls
Martin, asking if they can have lunch in New
Orleans.
Before meeting him, he goes to the New Orleans
graveyard and buries a mysterious box near
one grave.
At lunch with Martin, Damian fakes a seizure
and falls on the floor.
Martin gets scared and calls 911.
But instead of going to the hospital, the
ambulance vehicle takes the billionaire to
Phoenix Biogenic.
They quickly start the procedure so they inject
Damian with a needle and put him in the machine
fully conscious.
The strong lights and loud sounds make him
even more uncomfortable, but his perception
is quickly transferred into the new young
body.
When Damian turns his head, he sees his old
body unconscious and dead.
Shocked and disgusted, he throws up.
Albright tells him that it will take a few
days to adapt while Damian starts hallucinating.
Objects start morphing and he sees a picture
of a field with horses.
The doctor then sarcastically says that death
has side effects.
Damian now has to stay in the hospital and
go through training and physical therapy to
get used to his new body.
Since he can’t go back to his new life,
Damian also has to learn a fake biography
and use a new name – Edward Kidner.
After a brief phase of confusion and desperation,
he starts liking his new handsome self, but
the hallucinations and headaches don’t go
away.
Albright tells him that his mind still hasn’t
got used to the new neural structure so he
gives him pills that will help the transition.
If Damian doesn’t take them, he might die
or have severe migraines and hallucinations.
Also, he must stay in New Orleans to meet
with Albright regularly and get his weekly
pill supply.
After Damian completes the training, he is
dropped at a large beautiful house in New
Orleans that is now his.
Damian a.k.a. Edward, is quickly adapting
and sooner than later, starts playing basketball
in the neighborhood.
There, he meets Anton who lives right next
to him and offers to take him out.
That same night they go to a club and every
woman is staring at Damian who is now a handsome
young man.
But he still isn’t used to answering questions
about his life, job, and age so people think
he’s a little weird.
Despite this, Damian gets into a new routine
much sooner than expected.
He starts hanging out with his friends, playing
basketball, sleeping with beautiful women,
getting his pills, clubbing, and simply enjoying
life.
After a while, this new routine doesn’t
satisfy him anymore, especially since he can’t
see his daughter.
Distracted by his sadness, one day he forgets
to take his pill and soon after, starts hallucinating.
He sees flashbacks of the army along with
images of a small town with a pumpkin tower.
In his hallucinations, he also sees a mother
with her sick little daughter living in the
countryside.
Since the hallucination is too vivid and strong,
Damian thinks it’s a memory.
Later, he describes what he saw to Dr. Albright
who insists it’s just a mix of his old memories
and his current emotions.
As a way to draw his attention to something
else, the doctor gives him tickets to Hawaii
and doubles his medication.
He allso tells him that he saw a sick little
girl because he misses Claire and that the
Latina woman from his hallucination is probably
some one-night stand from his youth.
But, Damian didn’t tell Albright that the
woman was Latina so he immediately stars suspecting
the doctor.
He knows something is wrong so later tries
to find the pumpkin tower online.
Turns out, there is an exact tower in a small
town in St. Louis.
Looking for answers, he decides to trick Albright
and go to St. Louis instead of Hawaii.
Before leaving, he goes to the graveyard and
digs up the box he buried.
In it, there is money, documents, and credit
cards so he takes some and heads toward the
airport.
One of Albright’s men follows him but Damian
quickly escapes his sight and catches a flight
to the small town.
A few hours later, he arrives right at the
pumpkin tower he saw before.
Next to the tower, he notices a house and
knocks at the door, but there’s nobody there.
Sensing there’s more that meets the eye,
Damian decides to enter the property and inside
sees medical bills and parts of a respirator
machine.
Most importantly, he sees a picture of Madeline
and Anna, the mother and daughter from his
hallucination.
He also sees his new self in one of the pictures.
Turns out, the body wasn’t genetically engineered
but was an actual person with a life.
As he’s dealing with the uncomfortable truth,
Madeline returns home and points a gun at
him from behind.
He tells her to calm down and slowly turns
toward her as she falls on the floor, crying
in disbelief because she thought her husband
was dead.
As he tries to explain, Albright’s men come
into the house, knock out Madeline and try
to kidnap Damian.
His friend Anton comes too since he was part
of the Phoenix Biogenetics and was spying
on him the whole time.
Anton explains that Madeline’s husband,
Mark, agreed to give his body for money that
would cover his daughter’s treatment.
Damian is shocked and confronts Anton, explaining
why Albright is a murderer.
The spy then gives a coldhearted metaphor,
telling him that it’s normal to be upset
because he bought a new car and just found
out the car had a few miles on it.
Also, even though he is angry, there’s no
point in coming back to the house since they
will assassinate Madeline and burn her property.
Luckily, the billionaire has a strong moral
compass so decides to trick Albright’s men
and save Madeline.
He pretends to take his pills so he goes to
the bathroom and attacks one of the men there.
With the help of Mark’s army instincts,
he kills a few of Albright’s men and goes
to wake up Madeline but loses his pills during
a fight.
Anton and the others try to burn the house
down but Madeline and Damian go under the
platform and start shooting them in the legs.
Soon after, Damian kills everyone and runs
toward the car with Mark’s wife.
Damian lies to her and pretends to be her
husband, saying he agreed to do some dirty
work to pay for Anna’s medicine.
Both of them head off to save Anna who is
at school.
Anna also thinks Damian is her dad so she
runs toward him and hugs him, yelling that
she knew he wasn’t dead.
Later, the three of them book a stay at a
motel where Damian uses a computer to find
more about Phoenix Biogenic.
He discovers that Albright was a student of
Jensen and also finds the address of Phyllis,
Dr. Jensen’s wife.
Because he doesn’t have any pills, he gets
a migraine and starts hallucinating again.
Madeline gets worried but Damian knows what
to do.
He decides to visit Phyllis and learn more
about the company.
The next morning, they take the car and go
to the nursery home where Jensen’s wife
is staying.
He poses as a student that’s doing research
about Jensen’s work and asks Phyllis to
give him the doctor’s old papers and documents.
The old woman has Alzheimer so she believes
Damian and starts telling him all sorts of
information.
He finds out that Albright visits her every
week so he quickly figures out that Jensen
is using Albright’s body.
He asks Phyllis to call Albright and invite
him to come.
When the doctor arrives, Damian points a gun
at him, demanding more pills.
But Albright tells him a bitter truth.
The more pills he takes, the more Mark disappears
along with his fighting skills and army training.
Without the pills, Damian’s mind will fall
into oblivion and Mark will take over the
body.
Damian then kidnaps Albright and demands he
takes him to the lab.
But as they start walking through the hallway,
Albright’s men attack and disarm him.
As they are taking Damian to a dark vehicle,
Madeline arrives and hits one of Albright’s
men.
Turns out it was Anton in a new body.
It’s not his first shedding and that’s
why he can quickly adapt to new vessels.
Damian fights off the other guard but before
the young couple runs away, Anton warns Madeline
that Damian is hiding something and tells
her to ask him about their daughter's birthday.
When Damian and Madeline get into their car,
the concerned mother insists they pull over
as soon as the coast is clear.
She wants to get something straight, especially
after the interaction with Anton.
She asks Damian about Anna’s birthday and
other details about their life together.
When he can’t give any answers, he starts
explaining the situation while Anna observes
their fight from the car wondering whether
everything is okay.
Madeline gets very agitated and angry because
Damian manipulated her and because she has
to disappoint her daughter.
She doesn’t want to explain to Anna how
the man who looks exactly like her father
is in fact a stranger.
But Albright’s men want to kill her too
so even though she doesn’t like or trust
Damian, she has to work with him to survive.
The billionaire then thinks of plan – to
ask help from Martin and place Anna and Madeline
in a safe location.
When they arrive at his friend’s mansion,
Damian convinces Martin of the truth by describing
details only the two of them know.
Martin then agrees to help and organizes their
escape.
Later, Damian tries to figure out how to explain
to little Anna that she’s never going to
see her father again.
But he starts bonding with her, building new
beautiful father-daughter memories.
He teaches her how to swim and they have a
great time together while Madeline observes
them from the window, happy.
Since he is in her husband’s body, she feels
attracted to Damian so she asks to listen
to his heart and kisses him.
Damian feels uncomfortable and so he starts
telling her about his previous life in order
to shift her attention from Mark.
He opens up about his relationship with Claire
and they have an honest heart-to-heart conversation.
But suddenly, Damian notices that all the
mirrors in the house are covered.
He knows that Martin’s son died two years
ago and quickly starts suspecting that something
is wrong.
He runs and tries to find Anna who’s in
a large kid’s room playing with a little
boy.
Damian immediately figures out that Martin
brought his child to Phoenix Biogenetic as
well, and gave him a new body.
Turns out, Martin ratted them out to Albright
and that the killers are waiting outside to
kill them.
But Damian confronts his friend and tells
him that the little kid’s body is not created
in a lab.
It was a real person and someone else’s
child.
Martin is shocked and disgusted so he decides
to help them, this time for real.
He takes Madeline and Anna to a safe location
on foot through a forest while Damian drives
off in a car as bait.
Soon after, he gets into a car chase with
Albright’s men who are trying to capture
and kill him.
After shooting and crashing their cars into
each other, all of them get into a massive
car accident.
Damian gets out of the car and makes sure
everybody is dead before going to the diner
where he’s supposed to meet Madeline and
Martin.
However, Martin’s the only one who arrives.
He explains to Damian how Madeline and Anna
got ahead of him in the forest.
They asked for help from a mysterious car
on the road.
Little did they know, it was Albright’s
men so they got kidnapped and Martin couldn’t
do anything because they were far away.
Damian also learns Martin planted the business
card from Phoenix Biogenetic as a way to help
him.
Most importantly, he discovers that Martin
cracked the formula for Albright’s pills
and that he can engineer them from scratch.
But Damian starts wondering whether he should
continue to take pills, especially since that
way, he’s killing Mark.
He puts off that decision until later since
now he’s priority is to save Madeline and
Anna.
The plan is to say off the pill for 12 hours,
hoping to use Mark’s memories to find more
information about the lab’s location.
During his withdrawal, he sees a Mardi Gras
floats storage near Albright’s lab so he
heads to New Orleans to find the storage.
The next day, he goes to New Orleans and finds
the lab exactly next to a Mardi Gras storage.
He breaks in and attacks a few guards without
anybody noticing.
But in the room where the machine transfers
consciousness, he sees two new bodies.
Suddenly, Albright appears behind a glass
wall.
He sarcastically tells Damian that Madeline
was the perfect body match for a new client
and that Anna’s organs won’t be wasted.
Damian gets angry and shoots at the glass
that separates them when suddenly, two of
Albright’s men appear and disarm him.
His body will now be used as a new vessel
for Anton’s consciousness.
Before stepping into the machine, Damian finds
a bullet and swallows it without anybody noticing.
Next thing we know, Anton wakes up in Mark’s
body.
Albright starts asking questions to determine
whether it’s really Anton.
After he’s convinced, he sends him on a
mission to assassinate Madeline and Anna.
But when Anton enters the room they are staying
at, he kills the guards instead and saves
the mother and child.
Turns out, it was Damian in Mark’s body
all along.
The three of them start running away and fight
off Albright’s men.
Soon, they end up in a room which separates
them from Albright with a glass wall.
Damian tells the doctor that he carefully
listened to instructions before the first
procedure.
He remembered that the transformation won’t
work if there is metal on the bodies.
By swallowing a bullet, he managed to remain
in Mark’s body.
Albright doesn’t think that Damian will
kill him because he’s the only one who has
the pill formula.
But he doesn’t know that Martin cracked
the code, so Damian burns the doctor with
a torch.
After they escape the lab, Anna and Madeline
go to a safe destination Martin found for
them.
But Damian doesn't come along.
Instead, he goes to see Claire.
He poses as her father’s friend and starts
opening up.
He tells Claire that Damian regretted not
spending time with her as a child and that
he was proud of her.
Then, he gives her a letter and leaves but
not without glancing at her one more time
from outside the window.
The next thing we see is Damian waking up
in a hotel room.
He is confused and finds a video of himself
on a computer.
Turns out, Damian isn’t in Mark’s body
anymore.
The billionaire decided to get off the pill
and allow Mark to take over, giving him back
the life that was taken from him.
Mark is in shock but he feels extremely grateful.
He then goes to join Madeline and Anna who
are now living on a beautiful tropical island.